The first few sentences should give a quick overview of the entire project. Then, elaborate with a description of the problem that will be solved, a brief history (with citations) of how the problem came about, why it's important/interesting, and any other interesting facts you'd like to talk about. You should address and explain where the problem data is coming from (research? the internet? synthetically generated?) Also give an outline of the rest of the report.

This section should be 300-600 words long, and should be accessible to a general audience (don't assume your reader has taken the class!). Feel free to include images if you think it'll be helpful:

# Introduction

This report seeks to design optimization models around selecting NBA players for an NBA team. Since the 1940s, NBA teams have utilized specialized tools, statistics, and models to assist them in constructing optimal lineups. As listed by [nbastuffer.com](https://www.nbastuffer.com/analytics101/nba-teams-that-have-analytics-department/), every NBA team currently has an analytics department, supplying their organizations with knowledge of how to best match current rosters with offseason transactions. Even popular games such as the NBA 2K series to ESPN's Fantasy Basketball League, have given hardcore fans the chance to craft a fantasized lineup for their favorite clubs. With such demand, we will examine two models one can take to assist them in selecting for an optimal, fantasized NBA lineup. 

**In our first model**, we look to maximize a team's winning percentage by selecting players around their offensive (higher = better) and defensive (lower = better) efficiency rating from the 2018-2019 NBA season (provided by [NBAstatstuffer.com]((https://www.nbastuffer.com/2018-2019-nba-player-stats/))). 

Then, using these two parameters, by using player's salaries (provided by [basketball-reference.com](https://www.basketball-reference.com/contracts/players.html)), we can offer various lineups for teams. This model takes advantage of integer linear programming with binary variables. Whereas linear programming maximizes (or minimizes) a linear objective function (subject to one or more constraints), integer linear programming adds the additional condition that players' selection can only either 0 (don't choose this player), or 1, (choose this player). Thus, we get a decisive decision on who to select and who not to select. 

**In the second model**, rather than using efficiency ratings, we apply a player's shooting 'sweet spot'. By utilizing tradeoff between the sweet spot distribution vs. the total sweet, we can calculate the optimal lineup a team can have on the court. In this model, we synthetically generated x, y coordinates, corresponding to halfcourt, accounted for a player's abilities (e.g., stars, rookies), and their positions (e.g., centers shoot near the rim, whereas guards shoot 3-pointers). From thirty players, we pick a lineup of 5 (two guards, two forwards, and a center).

In both of these models, we first provide the mathematical model and the corresponding code, we examine results, offer our interpretations of the data, any limitations we experienced, and possible improvements that could be made.
